---
title: "BSides PDX Update"
date: 2018-10-27T22:13:00-07:00
---

BSides PDX was a blast, as expected. My team ([@sectribe](https://twitter.com/sectribe)) ended up ranked 3 out
of 26 on the scoreboard. I was the first person to solve the web-100 and
web-200 challenge, and the third to solve the web-300. The web-300 was some
pretty standard SQL injection, the web-200 was a padding oracle attack on an
encrypted cookie, and the web-100 was URL knocking. Out of all of them, the
web-100 frustrated me the most. I spent pretty much the entire first day on it.
[@swordofomen](https://twitter.com/swordofomen) solved osint-200, and Aaron J
solved the pwn-re-200, giving us a total of 1000 points at the end. I was
extremely close to getting osint-300 at the end, which would have boosted us to
2nd place, but I gave up. I was super burnt out by 5:00 on Saturday when they
froze the scoreboard. I also sorta helped
[@The4rchangel](https://twitter.com/The4rchangel) find a missing teenager in
the OSINT CTF (finding real-world missing persons) by suggesting that he check
Snapmap after adding the missing person on Snapchat after finding it on their
Instagram. You can read his article on the OSINT CTF
[here](https://medium.com/@the4rchangel/bsides-portland-osint-ctf-404e1e99ecb).

It was really cool meeting [@\_MG\_](https://twitter.com/_MG_) and checking out
his HID-attack iPhone charging cable, as well as seeing the Hardware Implant
Panel which discussed the Bloomberg article about the "tiny chip that China
used to infiltrate America's top companies." The entire thing was basically:
this likely isn't real, but it's plausible, the concern is real, and you should
worry about it.

The after-parties at [@pascalpdx](https://twitter.com/pascalpdx) and
[@ctrlhpdx](https://twitter.com/ctrlhpdx) were super fun. I'm beyond excited
for next year's BSides PDX. Maybe this whole thing has even motivated me to go
to Defcon 27.

Github Solutions/Notes/Recreations: https://github.com/fharding1/bsidesctf-2018
